This is Kenneth Lai's Assignment 2 for BI623 

Scripts: 
* plotqs.sh = generates a .png of the average quality score distribution for a given input (fastq.gz) file & o/e files as well. All lines (except for 1) under "#Running part1.py" will be commented out. To use this script, "un-comment-out" the line w/ the command the specifies the file you wanted to input BEFORE running the plotqs.sh script! Can run all lines at same time instead (no commenting out) if you are not concerned about tracking the o/e file info. (runtime, mem usage, etc.) b/w input feles' runs. 
* 1_2A_R1_FASTQC.sh =  ran FASTQC on specified zipped fastq file. This was performed to compare the amount of time (along with other parameters to measure efficiency) customized scripts took to create QC plots vs. those from FASTQC. 
* cutadapt.sh = properly trims adaptor sequences from libraries' fastq.gz sequences via cutadapt. Read output file from job: Simutaneously checks for proper orientation (Undesired Adaptor count should = 0). Also confirms success of adaptor trimming (Adaptor count AFTER cutadapt should = 0). Need adaptor seq. of expected orientation, input file path, output file path, & adaptor sequence for the unexpected orientation. Outputs another fastq.gz with trimmed adaptors, is ready for quality trim (trimomatic) 
* trimmomatic.sh = quality trims output fastq.gz from cutadapt.sh. Simutaneously takes R1 & R2 input, need to specify output paths/filenames for R1 & R2 paired vs. unpaired reads (post-trimming). Order as follows: trimmomatic.sh $R1_fastq $R2_fastq $R1_paired_output $R1_unpaired_output $R2_paired_output $R2_unpaired_output. 
* read_len_dist_plot.py =  takes in post-quality-trimming fastq.gz files for both R1 & R2. Plots distribution of read lengths, distingushing reads from R1 vs. R2. 
* star_align.sh = aligns reads / R1 & R2 files (.fastq.gz) to a ref. genome database created from STAR (made w/ UNZIPPED FILES: .gtf & .fasta). Outputs a SAM file. (Hardcoded, would have to change the file paths to match yours of interest)
* sam_parse.py = counts # of mapped [prints out first] vs. unmapped reads [prints out second] within a given sam file (x.out.sam) 
* mapped_featured_calc.sh = takes in a gene count.txt file (output of htseq-count performed on .sam in previous steps) & calc.s the % of mapped features for the given gene count table (for said library)
